Hey guys, long time no see.
Not really, I just like saying that. Hopefully, you
guys have a better feel for Google Analytics
now and you've been able to poke around
and find stuff out about your own website.
As I said at the end of the last lecture, this lecture
is going to be all about goals, setting them up
and then understanding how to use them effectively.
So let's get our goals on.
OK, so we'll start on the Audience Overview page, because
as I said in the last lecture, this is where Google Analytics
always starts you.
This time we're going to head
up to the Administration tab.
Here we see three sections, we have Account, Property,
and View. We're looking for Goals, which is right here
in the View section.
Now, click on that and you can see my laziness
in all its official glory, since I don't actually have
any goals set up. At this point, it should be fairly
obvious what the next step is, since there is a bright
red button right here that says New Goal.
Now, we're on the goal setup screen and Google gives
us a bunch of template options and four categories,
revenue, acquisition, inquiry, engagement.
There's also a custom option toward the bottom if you need it,
but most common goal types are going
to be in this template section.
Now, goals don't make a ton of sense for 25 days of
ideas, unless maybe we're doing like media plays in
the engagement category, which
tell me when people play my videos.
But I actually already have that set up, because
Wistia tells me when people play my videos.
Also, I did this for fun, so I wasn't really trying to track
where my best sources were coming from and
how many people converted.
So instead let's pretend I'm selling some sort of
products, since that's probably what most of you will
be doing with your business.
So under Revenue, I'll click on "Place an order"
and scroll down and click Continue.
That takes us to the second step in the setup process, which
is goal description. We can name this whatever we want,
so let's pretend I'm Carl and I'm setting up a goal for
tracking the sales of my sweet, sweet creampuffs.
I'm going to leave destination picked here under
Type, because in the next section I'll type in the
URL where users will end up after
they complete their purchase.
This is important, because it'll essentially represent
a sale of the product, because it means they got
past the checkout page. We'll click Continue
and we are onto the last step, goal details.
Now, this is where you plug in the
URL where your users end up
after they complete their purchase, like I just mentioned.
I recommend assigning a value to each order,
because that will help us later on when we talk about
things like running ads, because it will allow you to
determine whether or not these ads
are at the end of the day profitable.
Now, lastly, we could create a funnel, which is basically
a series of web pages on your site that your
customers have to go through
in order to place your order.
This could look something like a product page, then a
View Cart page, and then a checkout page, then, let's say,
like a "Thank you for your order" page or whatever
makes sense for your site. You can add as many steps or
pages as needed.
Now, I highly recommend that you do take some time
and set up your funnel, and this is something that
marketers for some reason refer
to as instrumenting your funnel.
Now, why should you instrument your funnel? Well,
because then you'll be able to see how many users get
through each step and why might that be important.
Well, let's use Carl's creampuffs as an example
one last time to illustrate why. Let's say Carl has his
site set up like the funnels example I just gave.
So his customers go to the product page for
his creampuffs, that's step one in the funnel.
Then, after they click the "Add to cart" button, they click
on the "View cart" button, which puts them on the
"View cart" page, that's step two. Let's say 25% of the people
who started at step one ended up clicking through to step two.
Now, some of those people are ready to buy Carl's
creampuffs, so they click "Checkout," which puts them
on the next checkout page, which is step three.
Let's say maybe only another 10% of people actually
get from step two to step three. After some
of these people put in their payment info, they click
"Order," end up on the "Thank you" page, which is the final
step in the funnel.
And let's say 50% of people go
from step three to the final step.
Now let's just do that math really quickly.
Carry the one... That means that Carl has an overall
conversion rate of 1.25% from step one to the final step.
How I got to that guys, you just multiply them all together.
Yes, I know, that was a mouthful.
Anyway, now, with this funnel instrumented, well, Carl
doesn't have to actually do the math and Google will
give him an easy way to see how each step is performing.
Now, most importantly, though, he can
make changes to his site in the future,
let it run for a while, and then see what kind
of effect those changes have on his funnel.
Also, it's incredibly useful for troubleshooting, because
it might turn out that you have an abnormal
drop off in one stage,
therefore you should focus your effort on fixing that
page. And that's pretty much it for setting up goals.
One quick thing you should know about it is, when you
set up a new goal, it'll only track data after you set it up.
In other words, Google won't display any past information,
even though they know the information to have access to it.
It drives me crazy.
But, of course, you can't really complain
too much, because Google Analytics is free.
OK, guys, off to the last lecture in this section.
I will see you then.